Hallway Lockers - SOLUTION

Problem Statement
You are in a hallway lined with 100 lockers. You start with one pass and open the lockers, so that the opened lockers are now with their doors opened out. You begin by closing every second locker. Then you go to close every third locker and close it if it is open or open it if it’s closed — we will refer to this as "toggling" the lockers. You continue toggling every nth locker on pass number n. After your hundredth pass of the hallway, in which you toggle only locker number 100, how many lockers are open?

Solution
Obviously you can't just brute force and count out this problem, there are just too many passes, so we will need to think about this algorithmically.
Let's begin solving this problem by choosing an arbitrary locker and see if we can detect a pattern. Let's choose locker 12, it has been toggled open on your first pass.
To start off we know we won't have to toggle it on any pass greater than 12. So now we only have to think of the passes that occur on 2-11. We can actualy count these out:

On pass 2: 2,4,6,8,10,12
On pass 3: 3,6,9,12
On pass 4: 4,8,12
On pass 5: 5,10 No toggle on this pass
On pass 6: 6,12
On pass 7: 7,14 No toggle on this pass
ect...

You'll notice the pattern that emerges, we only toggle the locker when the pass number is a factor of the locker number. We can begin to make the generalization that all lockers started open after the first pass and alternate between being open and closed. So lockers are closed after the second, fourth, sixth, and so on, times they are toggled — in other words, if a locker is toggled an even number of times, then it ends closed; otherwise, it ends open. You know that a locker is toggled once for every factor of the locker number, so you can say that a locker ends open only if it has an odd number of factors.
The task has now been reduced to finding how many numbers between 1 and 100 have an odd number of factors!
We can think about this in the following manner:

If a number i is a factor of n, what does that mean? It means that i times some other number j is equal to n. Because multiplication is commutative (i × j = j × i), that means that j is a factor of n, too, so the number of factors is usually even because factors tend to come in pairs. If you can find the numbers that have unpaired factors, you will know which lockers will be open. Multiplication is a binary operation, so two numbers will always be involved, but what if they are both the same number (that is, i = j)? In that case, a single number would effectively form both halves of the pair, and there would be an odd number of factors. When this is the case, i × i = n. Therefore, n must be a perfect square. Try a perfect square to check this solution. For example, for 16, the factors are 1, 2, 4, 8, 16; operations are open, close, open, close, open — as expected, it ends open.

Based on this reasoning, you can conclude that only lockers with numbers that are perfect squares end up open. The perfect squares between 1 and 100 (inclusive) are 1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81, and 100. So 10 lockers would remain open.