In this lesson, we're going to focus on introducing yourself well and with confidence. So we're going to do that in a couple of ways. First, I'm going to give some tips and hints about how to prepare your introduction. Then we'll work through some good and bad examples, and then you'll get some practice introducing yourself and then getting pure feedback. So let's get started with that first piece. So by the end of this video you should be able to identify common best practices in an introduction, and recognize the need to tailor your introduction based on your audience.
0:33
So every interview is going to have an introduction. You're each going to say hi, my name is this, and you go back and forth. But then what often follows, not all the time, but some of the time, is they're going to follow up with the question, well tell me a little bit about yourself?
0:49
Now this is not the time to ad lib. The answers should not be something along a lines of well I'm a Scorpio, and I really like running, and I had a really good bagel sandwich at this morning. Not a good answer. So if that's not a good answer, what's a good answer? Well to arrive with that we have to have a better feel for, why do they ask you this. Why they ask you tell a little more about yourself? They're asking for three reasons. At least three reasons. And these are they want some reassurance that they made a good decision bringing you out for the interview. They want to know that you are still a good fit for the job and they want to hear that you're a good fit basically. What's your background, and how does that background apply for this job?
1:38
They're also using it to help spark conversation. Based on things you say, they're going to have questions to ask you, which will spawn more conversation. And they also want to see what you think is important. If you've only got 30 seconds or 45 seconds to introduce yourself, what do you choose to put there? It says a lot about you. So let's get back to what you're going to say. So you can vary this a lot, but I'm going to give you a rough template. And you can come up with ways of organizing these on your own but this might be a good place to start. So start it with who you are, so what's your present position, what are you studying, what field do you work in. And then give a little about your background, what you're interested in and what you've done in the past. And then give a recent accomplishment that fits really well with the position that you've applied for, and then tie that to the position if you can.
2:26
So let's do an example here. So this is for one of our undergrad students, an imaginary undergrad student here at UCSD, and when they're asked who you are, they're going to talk about, well they're a third year undergrad. If you're already in industry here you say something like I'm a software engineer at company x. So the next piece is what's your background? So, if you're a student, you're obviously going to talk about coursework that you've done associated with this position, and what you're interested in doing. If you're already in industry, again, what you're going to talk about what you're interested in doing, but you might talk about, well I spent the last five years working on developing this software stack, or something like that.
3:05
Then you're going to talk about a recent accomplishment, or project that you've done, that fits well with this position. So if you're in a company, you may talk about a major achievement at your company that's happened recently. Or if you're a student, you might talk about a large course project that you've done. So, if you've done our entire specialization, one of our projects from one of the previous courses might be a good thing to talk about. You could also talk about potentially the capstone for this course, for the specialization.
3:32
Either way, you're going to want to talk about a project that applies to the position and then relate it back to the position. So, let's just kind of run through this example. What would this sound like? It'd be something like, hi, well, I'm a third year undergrad student at the University of California San Diego, and I'm studying computer science. I'm incredibly interested in designing intelligent hardware. So I've emphasized my coursework on computer hardware, computer architecture and machine learning. And last year we had this incredibly interesting project where my team got to design from the top to the bottom, from the smallest circuit board all the way up to the software that was running on it, a semi intelligent quadcopter. And I'm incredibly excited about doing projects like this at this company.
4:14
Okay, so with that kind of introduction, let's see if that's going to meet the needs of the interviewer.
4:21
So let's revisit these criteria. Did I reassure the interviewer that I have a background for the position? Well if this is a position that relies on computer science skills, machine learning and computer architecture, yeah, I absolutely did right? I told them I am in computer science, these are the things I do, and yes I still am a potentially good fit for this job.
4:41
Did I spark conversation? I think I did. I mean, after that introduction they need a question from the interviewer be, well what does the quadcopter do? What could it do? You said it was semi intelligent, could it fly itself? Could it just hover on its own? Could it navigate obstacles? Where were you going with it and how did you design it?
5:01
And then we told them what was important with that introduction. We said that the key piece there is that you're really interested in intelligent hardware systems, and you have the background to match that. So if this position is intelligent hardware systems, you've done a really good job introducing yourself.
5:19
There are a couple of additional criteria I want to mention. You want to be organized and brief with this. You want to have your introduction 30 seconds, maybe the max of a minute. This is not a time to go into a five minute discussion. You don't want to have it disorganized. This is not a time to say, well I was born here and then give a long chronology of your life. Again, you want to rehearse this so that it's organized and brief. You also want to make sure you convey confidence and you want to present it in a professional demeanor. And you want to make sure that the introduction is appropriate for the position. Now, all these points we're going to talk about more in our next video, which will be some good examples and some bad examples, but I do want to talk a little more about this being appropriate for the position.
6:01
After you've got a really good introduction, it's really tempting to just stick with that one introduction that you did at this one company that went well. But you can't do that, you're going to have to tailor for each company, and I'll do a personal example here. I've got a background both in computer architecture and in computer science education research. If I were applying for a position at a company like Intel, I'm going to talk a lot about my hardware background. If I'm applying for a position at say Coursera, I talk a lot about my education background. Depending on the position you're applying for, you're going to tailor your introduction.
=====
As you might imagine, there are a LOT of resources out there designed to help with public speaking skills. We've highlighted just a few, organized based on how you might prefer to learn the material:

Online Course:

Coursera: Introduction to Public Speaking (University of Washington)
https://www.coursera.org/learn/public-speaking

Books:

The Art of Public Speaking, 11th edition by Stephen E. Lucas (Textbook)

Talk Like TED: The 9 Public-Speaking Secrets of the World's Top Minds

Organizations:

Toastmasters International (in-person group practice)