After completing this course, you will be able to...

    Evaluate successful interview and job skills both on technical and soft-skill merit
    Recognize the value of soft skills in Computer Science.

    Define a tech interview and describe the process of applying to get one

    Use a rubric to critique resumes
    Speak clearly and confidently about yourself

    Write code in a Google doc in a high-pressure situation
    Describe prior projects to make your contribution clear
    Solve new problems on the whiteboard under pressure, using appropriate communication skills
    Describe best-practices, tips, and common pitfalls for successful interviews

And we hope...

    Ace your technical interviews!

=====
In terms of that, you're going to be able to introduce yourself, which we're going to work on this week. You can go to, write code, which we're going to work on in week two. You're going to be able to describe prior projects, or describe your work, and we're going to focus on that in week three. You're going to be able to solve new problems, and we're focusing on that in week four.
=====
And we already saw in the last video that both soft skills and technical skills are necessary to achieve your goals on the job as a software engineer, and during the software engineering interview. But what exactly do we mean by soft skills?

One definition comes from Wikipedia. This definition includes social graces, communication, language, personal habits, interpersonal skills, managing people, and leadership. In this definition, we see soft skills as critical interpersonal skills focused on relationships with others. It's not hard to see how these are absolutely essential for working on a software team.
=====

By the end of this week, you will be able to...

    Describe common components of the application/interview process
    Recognize common interview formats
    Describe methods and resources for preparing for the interview
    Research a position to help determine if it's a "good fit"
    Research a position to help apply and prepare for an interview
    Employ a number of tips to improve your resume
    Avoid common pitfalls in resume writing
    Describe who is involved in the interview process
    Employ a number of tips to ensure success during your Technical Phone Interview and in-person interview
    Recognize the format of the In-Person Interview
    Identify common best practices in an introduction
    Recognize the need to tailor your introduction by audience
    Identify common errors when introducing yourself both in content and in demeanor