The last piece that we're going to talk about here is communication skills. The important part here is not that you stand up and present for some audience, but that you really communicate with your audience. You're trying to convey to these interviewers or to your colleagues at work that you have a good solution to a problem. And soft skills, those communication skills, are a big part of what's going to make you successful.

All right, so what did you see in those examples? Some of the important skills are eye contact, look at the people that you're talking to even if you're talking to more than one person. Look at various individuals, look around the room, make sure you're making eye contact with them. When you make eye contact it will be easier to read their expression. So make sure they're really following along. If they look confused, you should feel free to ask if anyone has any questions. Or maybe you want to slightly change your explanation so that they have a better understanding.
Along those lines, if they do ask you questions, make sure you really understand what their questions are. We'll talk about answering questions in the next video. But make sure that you're not leaving them behind in the dust.
Then finally, be excited about your problem and the solution. So be animated, not over the top crazy animated, but don't just stand there and talk like this, and this is the problem that I solved, because you sound bored by your own solution. And let's face it, if you don't care about this problem and the solution that you created, no one else is going to care about it. So practice with these soft skills. Practice having as many conversations as you can. Get people to really care about and understand your solution.

=====
But keep in mind that if someone's asking you a question, it's because they're actually interested in your work and they really, honestly want to know more. So, we have some tips for you to help you handle questions more effectively. First thing you want to do, is you want to make sure that you acknowledge the question asker. This is somebody who's genuinely interested in your work and you want them to feel good about asking the question. Secondly, make sure you actually understand the question. I can't tell you how many times I've listened to people answer the question and technical talk, that's not the question I'm asking. So, if you have any doubts about the question, be sure to clarify what the question asker actually means. The third thing you want to do, is answer the question in a good way by referring back to the work that you've already done. So, tie in what the question asker's asking with things that you've done in your work. It's all stuff you should be familiar with. It's nothing new. They're not asking you to read or write some formula on the fly. They're just honestly wanting to know more about what you've already done.
=====
And sometimes interviewers are interested in your own contribution, but often what they're interested in too is how you work as a team. How you work in the context of a larger group project, and how you're a productive team member. So they want to get a sense of how you work in a group and what your particular contribution to a project is. So the question that might come in many forms, they might ask you to talk about challenges you faced in group work. Or they might ask you talk about a large project and describe your contribution and how it fits into a whole. Now the technical piece of your explanation can match what we have been talking about all week, describing the problem, and the solution, and how it all fits together. When we bring in the specific group work piece, there's some added subtleties to what you'll want to think about. So one thing, as I mentioned, that they might ask you is to talk about challenges you faced, when you are working as part of a team.

So you can see in that explanation, I went into a little more technical detail. How did we break the work down? What was my personal contribution and what did my teammates provide? And how were we able to create a successful group working environment? So, as you start working on your technical explanations, we are not in the assignment going to ask you specifically to talk about group work necessarily. But do keep in mind these are questions you could get asked. And we encourage you to practice talking about how your project fit into a larger piece of group work.