By the end of this video, you'll get started on articulating your technical solution in a way that's clear and compelling, so the solution is the fun part. That's what you did. That's your chance to say, hey, look at this cool solution I came up with for that problem I told you about. Isn't it exciting? So you want to convey that to your audience. And you want them to see how awesome and elegant and creative your solution really is.
=====
It's almost impossible to avoid these pitfalls the first time you're trying to explain your solution. So let's take a look at a couple of the most common. The first one we're going to talk about is a pitfall called in the weeds, or trying to sound really smart. So by the end of this video you'll be able to identify that pitfall and know how to avoid it.
Now he may have thought that by confusing his audience he was sounding smart. But in fact, you're going to do just the opposite if you do that. You're audience is very smart themselves, and making them feel like they don't understand something? They're probably more than likely just going to think, wow! That person really can't understand or talk about what they did. They probably don't even understand at themselves. Why are they using all these technical jargon when simpler words would do? So you really want to avoid confusing your audience. That's never a good plan.

So what you're aiming for is a clear, elegant presentation of your solution. Not a ton of technical detail all thrown on top of each other.

So a good rule of thumb is generally stay relatively high level with your solution. Make it elegant, make it clear, but choose maybe one piece of that solution to go into a little bit more technical detail on. This could be a piece that they asked you about in particular or this could be a piece that you've pre-rehearsed. Be ready for either situation. But keep in mind, you never want to confuse your audience and when in doubt less is usually more.

=====
Yes, it might be challenging to get to that simple solution, but it's not a good idea to make your solution sound really complex and hard to understand.

So as hard as it is and as hard as you work, your goal is to boil down the solution into something elegant, creative, and fairly simple. Now occasionally you'll be asked to talk about a dead end you ran into or a specific challenge you've had along the way. And in those cases, it's appropriate to focus on a particular dead end that you ran into. But in general, don't treat this like you're presenting a summer report from back in grade school. You're interviewer does not care about what you did on every single day of the time you were working on the project. They want to know what was elegant and simple and effective about the solution.

=====