So, the approach that you may have seen online. That's kind of all over the place is that when you're presenting this technical work you'll use something called the STAR method. So, this is a very nice approach to presenting your work, and STAR is an acronym. It stands for situation, task, action, and result, so STAR. So in this situation part, you want to talk about what was the situation in which you were solving a problem? Who was involved? What is the sort of context of the problem you were trying to solve? Then you'll go on to the task. So, what was exactly the problem you were trying to solve? Why should people really care about it? Then you can go on to the action. What was the solution that you presented? What did you actually do? And then, of course, what was the result? Did it actually solve the problem? How did you know? How do you know? So, all of these pieces need to be present in your technical explanation. What we're going to do in this week is, we're going to take the STAR model. And we're going to group it a little bit differently. So, we can really get at some of the real challenges to developing this technical presentation. And talk about some of the common pitfalls that we see. So, what we're going to do, is divide this into three lessons. Where first, we focus on the problem, so pitching the problem. How do you effectively pitch and problem and it's context so that the people you're talking to will care about your problem and see that you know why that problem is important? And this roughly corresponds to the S and the T, the situation and the task portion of that star model. In the next lesson, we'll talk about the solution. So, what was your technical solution? Why did it solve the problem? Why was it innovative and creative? That piece roughly corresponds to the A and R, the Action and the Result.

=====
By the end of this week, you will be able to...

    Clearly and confidently present a project you have worked on
    Describe how your description of a project you've worked on will be viewed and evaluated
    Present a problem in a compelling way
    Break a problem down from high-level description to low-level details
    Present a problem in a way that is tailored to your audience and the time allowed
    Identify and fix the common pitfall of mixing your problem and solution together
    Identify and fix the common pitfall of pitching you problem to the wrong audience
    Articulate your technical solution clearly
    Identify and fix a common pitfall in presenting your solution: Trying to sound "smart"
    Identify and fix a common pitfall in presenting your solution: Presenting all your work, in order
    Describe how to use visual aids appropriately in your description
    Appropriately use eye contact, body language and other soft skills to make your audience care about your problem
    Make your "talk" a conversation with your audience
    Answer technical questions about your presentation appropriately
    Describe your contribution to a group project